The taxi-hailing app is considered both brilliant and controversial, depending on who you ask. Here we've documented the company's journey to a  70 billion valuation.  Disclaimer  it's been a bit of a bumpy one... uber X  Uber Uber board agrees to push ahead with SoftBank investment, and a 2019 IPO  Uber's board has manoeuvred to further limit the power of beleaguered former chief exec Travis Kalanick and decided to go ahead with proposed investment from Japanese conglomerate SoftBank, plus an initial public offering  IPO  by the end of 2019.  Investor Benchmark   which had previously attempted to push Kalanick from the board  see below    said it would drop its lawsuit as long as the SoftBank deal goes ahead.  In a statement seen by Reuters the board agreed to bolster corporate governance within the company following a wave of scandals and lawsuits.  Uber said   The board voted unanimously to move forward with the proposed investment by SoftBank and with governance changes that would strengthen its independence and ensure equality among all shareholders.       Uber reportedly bids  3bn for Nokia's Here mapping business     Uber reportedly bids  3bn for Nokia's Here mapping business     Quiz  How much do you know about Uber      Quiz  How much do you know about Uber   SoftBank Vision Fund and investment outfit Dragoneer are tipped to lead a consortium that would invest as much as  1.25 billion at Uber's  68 billion valuation, with an additional investment round planned that would see the group buy secondary shares, Reuters reports.  It's believed that new CEO Dara Khosrowshahi was brought in to lessen tensions at the director level and throughout the board, as well as reshape Uber's reputation. Transport for London agrees to further meetings with Uber  Khosrowshahi met with regulators from Transport for London this week. Reports suggest that while the talks didn't resolve the city's decision to strip the ride-sharing company of its licence, there could be some headway.  A TfL spokesperson describing the meeting as constructive   Today's constructive meeting centred on what needs to happen to ensure a thriving taxi and private hire market in London where everyone operates to the same high standards. Further steps in this process will take place over the coming weeks.   Uber CEO to meet with Transport for London this week  New Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi is set to meet Transport for London's transport commissioner Mike Brown on 3 October, after the ride-sharing app lost its licence to operate in the city.